[[Home]] > [[User Guide]] > [[UserGuide/Reading RDF|Reading RDF]]

= Reading RDF with dotNetRDF =

So one of the main things you'll want to do when working with RDF is to be able to read it in from Files, URIs and other sources in order to work with it using dotNetRDF. All the classes related to this are contained within the ##VDS.RDF.Parsing## namespace. So when you want to read RDF you'll need the following statements at the start of your code file:

{{{
#!csharp

using VDS.RDF;
using VDS.RDF.Parsing;
}}}

dotNetRDF currently supports reading RDF files in all of the following RDF syntaxes:

* NTriples
* Turtle
* Notation 3
* RDF/XML
* RDF/JSON (Talis Specification)
* RDFa 1.0 (Limited RDFa 1.1 support)
* TriG (Turtle with Named Graphs)
* TriX (Named Graphs in XML)
* NQuads (NTriples plus Context)

= Graph Parsers =

Graph Parsers implement the [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.IRdfReader|IRdfReader]] interface which defines a //Load(…)// method which takes an [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.IGraph|IGraph]] or a [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.Handlers.IRdfHandler|IRdfHandler]] and either a ##TextReader##, ##StreamReader## or a ##String##. Basic usage is as follows:

{{{
#!csharp

IGraph g = new Graph();
IGraph h = new Graph();
TurtleParser ttlparser = new TurtleParser();

//Load using a Filename
ttlparser.Load(g, "Example.ttl");

//Load using a StreamReader
ttlparser.Load(h, new StreamReader("Example.ttl"));
}}}

While the above is a slightly contrived example you'll note that parsers are reusable, once instantiated you can use them as many times as you need. Another useful feature is that parsers are designed to be thread safe so multiple threads can use the same instance of a parser to parse different inputs simultaneously without interfering with each other.

Parsers are typically capable of throwing [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.RdfParseException|RdfParseException]] and [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.RdfException|RdfException]] so you should always use Try Catch blocks around Parser usage e.g.

{{{
#!csharp

try 
{
	IGraph g = new Graph();
	NTriplesParser ntparser = new NTriplesParser();

	//Load using Filename
	ntparser.Load(g, "Example.nt");
} 
catch (RdfParseException parseEx) 
{
        //This indicates a parser error e.g unexpected character, premature end of input, invalid syntax etc.
	Console.WriteLine("Parser Error");
	Console.WriteLine(parseEx.Message);
} 
catch (RdfException rdfEx)
{
        //This represents a RDF error e.g. illegal triple for the given syntax, undefined namespace
	Console.WriteLine("RDF Error");
	Console.WriteLine(rdfEx.Message);
}
}}}

== Reading RDF from Common Sources ==

Often it is not necessary to invoke a parser directly since you can use a helper class to achieve the same effect without having to create the appropriate parser yourself, the following subsections detail available helper classes for reading RDF.

=== Reading RDF from Files ===

If you just want to quickly read RDF from a file without having to decide which parser you need you can use the static [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.FileLoader|FileLoader]] class which provides a //Load(IGraph g, String file)// method:

{{{
#!csharp

IGraph g = new Graph();
FileLoader.Load(g, "somefile.rdf");
}}}

The ##FileLoader## will try to select the correct Parser based on the file extension of the file if it corresponds to a standard file extension, if this is not possible it will use the StringParser class which attempts to detect the format using simple heuristics.

You can also force the loader to use a specific parser by using the 3 argument form //Load(IGraph g, String file, IRdfReader parser)//.

=== Reading RDF from URIs ===

Often you will want to read some RDF from a URI, to do this we provide the static [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.UriLoader|UriLoader]] class which provides a //Load(IGraph g, Uri u)// method.

{{{
#!csharp

IGraph g = new Graph();
UriLoader.Load(g, new Uri("http://dbpedia.org/resource/Barack_Obama"));
}}}

The ##UriLoader## will automatically select the correct Parser to use based on the returned ##Content-Type## header of the HTTP Response. In addition to the normal errors thrown by parsers the ##UriLoader## may also throw a ##RdfException## if the input URI is not valid or a ##WebException## if an error occurs in retrieving the URI using HTTP.

You can also force the loader to use a specific parser by using the 3 argument form //Load(IGraph g, Uri u, IRdfReader parser)//.

=== Reading RDF from Embedded Resources ===

If you choose to embed RDF files in your assemblies you can read RDF from these using the static [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.EmbeddedResourceLoader|EmbeddedResourceLoader]] class which provides a //Load(IGraph g, String resource)// method.

{{{
#!csharp

Graph g = new Graph();
EmbeddedResourceLoader.Load(g, "Your.Namespace.EmbeddedFile.n3, YourAssembly");
}}}

Note that the Resource Name must be an assembly qualified name. Like the other loaders this attempts to select the correct Parser based on the resource name.

You can also force the loader to use a specific parser by using the 3 argument form //Load(IGraph g, String resourceName, IRdfReader parser)//.

=== Reading RDF from Strings ===

Occasionally you may have a fragment of RDF in a string which you wish to parse. To do this you can use the static [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.StringParser|StringParser]] class and it's //Parse(IGraph g, String data)// method.

{{{
#!csharp

Graph g = new Graph();
StringParser.Parse(g, "<http://example.org/a> <http://example.org/b> <http://example.org/c>.");
}}}

The ##StringParser## uses some simple heuristics to try and determine the format of the RDF fragment which is passed to it.

=== Reading RDF from String (Alterate Method) ===

Alternatively since you can read RDF from any ##TextReader## you can simply invoke a parser on a String directly using a ##StringReader## e.g.

{{{
#!csharp

Graph g = new Graph();
NTriplesParser parser = new NTriplesParser();
parser.Load(g, new StringReader("<http://example.org/a> <http://example.org/b> <http://example.org/c>."));
}}}

This is roughly equivalent to how the ##StringParser## works internally except this method requires you to know the format of the RDF in advance.

== Parser Configuration ==

Some Parsers have additional configuration which can be used to change their behaviour. For example if a Parser implements the [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.ITraceableTokeniser|ITraceableTokeniser]] interface then the //TraceTokeniser// property can be used to ask for Tokeniser Trace to be output to the Console. Similarly if it implements [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.ITraceableParser|ITraceableParser]] then the //TraceParser// property can be used to ask for Parsing Trace to be output. These features are often useful when debugging to discover why an RDF document is failing to parse since you can see how the input is being tokenised and parsed.

Additionally some Parsers allow you to instantiate them with a [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.Tokens.TokenQueueMode|TokenQueueMode]]. This controls the type of queue used in the tokeniser process and can potentially affect the speed of parsing (though in most cases there is minimal difference). The available modes are:

|= Queue Mode |= Queue Behaviour |
| ##TokenQueueMode.QueueAllBeforeParsing## | The entire file is tokenised before parsing commences |
| ##TokenQueueMode.SynchronousBufferDuringParsing## | The file is tokenised as parsing proceeds, a limited number of Tokens are generated and buffered each time the parser asks for a Token. |
| ##TokenQueueMode.AsychronousBufferDuringParsing## | The file is tokenised in the background while parsing proceeds, if the parser asks for a Token and the tokeniser has yet to produce enough Tokens then the parser must wait for a Token to become available. |

= Store Parsers =

Store Parsers differ from Graph Parsers in that the input they parse may contain multiple Graphs and so their output is actually a Triple Store rather than a single Graph. You will often see Store Parsers referred to as RDF Dataset parsers.

Store Parsers implement the [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.IStoreReader|IStoreReader]] interface which defines a similar to the ##IRdReader## interface takes a [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.ITripleStore|ITripleStore]] or [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.Handlers.IRdfHandler|IRdfHandler]] and either a ##TextReader##, ##StreamReader## or a ##String##. A Store Parser can be used as follows:

{{{
#!csharp

TripleStore store = new TripleStore();
TriGParser trigparser = new TriGParser();

//Load the Store
trigparser.Load(store, "Example.trig");
}}}

As with Graph Parsers various exceptions may be thrown.

== Reading RDF Datasets from Common Sources ==

Similarly to Graph Parsers the Store Parsers can all be invoked indirectly with various methods of the ##EmbeddedResourceLoader##, ##FileLoader##, ##StringParser## and ##UriLoader## classes.  See the API documentation for those classes (linked earlier under the Graph Parsers section) for the relevant overloads.

= Advanced Parsing =

The examples we've shown so far all use an abstracted parsing model where you parse directly to a ##IGraph## or ##ITripleStore##. Behind the scenes this actually leverages our parser subsystem which is also exposed to you via the ##IRdfHandler## based overloads. This allows you much greater control over what is done with parsed Triples. In the examples given so far you have only been able to parse RDF into either a ##IGraph## or a ##ITripleStore## instance but this is not your only option.

You can use a ##IRdfHandler## to control explicitly what happens with the RDF you are parsing. Using any of the included implementations will require you to add the following using statement:

{{{
#!csharp

using VDS.RDF.Parsing.Handlers;
}}}

For example you may only want to count the Triples and not care about the actual values so you could use a [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.Handlers.CountHandler|CountHandler]] to do this:

{{{
#!csharp

//Create a Handler and use it for parsing
CountHandler handler = new CountHandler();
TurtleParser parser = new TurtleParser();
parser.Load(handler, "example.ttl");

//Print the resulting count
Console.WriteLine(handler.Count + " Triple(s)");
}}}

There are a variety of included implementations which do various things like redirecting Triples directly to a file, native Triple Store etc. You can also implement your own either entirely from scratch or just derive from [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.Handlers.BaseRdfHandler|BaseRdfHandler]] like our own implementations do to get most of the implementation for free.

= Parser Behaviour =

All the Graph Parsers provided in the library behave as follows:

* File/Stream Management:
** In the event of an error during Parsing the file/stream being Parsed will be closed
** On successful completion of Parsing the file/stream being Parsed will be closed
* If Parsing fails the Graph will not contain any of the Triples successfully parsed prior to the failure
* If a Parser is asked to parse into a non-empty Graph then the Parser will first parse into an Empty Graph and then Merge that Graph with the provided Graph.

All the Store Parsers provided in the library behave as follows:

* File/Stream Management as Graph Parsers
* If the Parser produces a Graph which already exists in the destination Store then an error may occur depending on how that Store behaves when a Graph already exists

= Parser Classes =

These are the standard parser classes contained in the Library:

|= Parser Class |= Supported Input |
| [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.NTriplesParser|NTriplesParser]] | NTriples |
| [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.Notation3Parser|Notation3Parser]] | Notation 3, Turtle, NTriples, some forms of TriG |
| [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.NQuadsParser|NQuadsParser]] | NQuads, NTriples |
| [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.RdfAParser|RdfAParser]] | RDFa 1.0 embedded in (X)HTML, some RDFa 1.1 support |
| [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.RdfJsonParser|RdfJsonParser]] | RDF/JSON (Talis specification) |
| [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.RdfXmlParser|RdfXmlParser]] | RDF/XML |
| [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.TriGParser|TriGParser]] | TriG |
| [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.TrixParser|TriXParser]] | TriX |
| [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Parsing.TurtleParser|TurtleParser]] | Turtle, NTriples |

= Tutorial Navigation =

The next topic is [[UserGuide/Writing RDF|Writing RDF]], the previous topic was [[UserGuide/Hello World|Hello World]].

Users may wish to jump to the following topics to learn more:

* [[UserGuide/Working with Graphs|Working with Graphs]]
* [[UserGuide/Working with Triple Stores|Working with Triple Stores]]