[[Home]] > [[User Guide]] > [[UserGuide/Storage API|Storage API]] > [[UserGuide/Storage/Providers|Storage Providers]] > [[UserGuide/Storage/AllegroGraph|Allegro Graph]]

= Allegro Graph =

dotNetRDF supports [[http://http://www.franz.com/agraph/|Franz AllegroGraph]] 3.x and 4.x via the [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Storage.AllegroGraphConnector|AllegroGraphConnector]] class.

== Supported Capabilities ==

Currently the connector supports the following capabilities:

* Load, Save, Update and List Graphs
* SPARQL Query

== Creating a Connection ==

To connect to Allegro Graph you will need to know the Base URI of your server, the catalog and store ID.  Optionally you can also provide HTTP authentication credentials and a HTTP proxy.

For 3.x you can create a connection like so:

{{{
#!csharp

//Create an unauthenticated connection
AllegroGraphConnector agraph = new AllegroGraphConnector("http://localhost:9875", "catalog", "store");
}}}

Or provide authentication credentials like so:

{{{
#!csharp

//Create an authenticated connection
AllegroGraphConnector agraph = new AllegroGraphConnector("http://localhost:9875", "catalog", "store", "user", "password");

}}}

The 4.x release introduced the notion of a root catalog which allows you to omit the Catalog ID for stores in this catalog, you can either set the catalog to ##null## or use the constructors which omit the argument e.g.

{{{
#!csharp

//Create an unauthenticated connection to a store in the root catalog
AllegroGraphConnector agraph = new AllegroGraphConnector("http://localhost:9875",  "store");
}}}

= Managing a Server =

We support managing a server via the [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Storage.Management.AllegroGraphServer|AllegroGraphServer]] class which implements our [[UserGuide/Storage/Servers|Servers API]]

Managing a server allows you to manage a single catalog at a time, a ##AllegroGraphConnector## provides access to its associated server via the //ParentServer// or //AsyncParentServer// property.

== Connecting to a Server ==

You can also create connect directly to a server by creating an instance of the [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Storage.Management.AllegroGraphServer|AllegroGraphServer]] class.  This requires you to know the Base URI and catalog ID you want to manage.

For 3.x you will always need the catalog ID:

{{{
#!csharp

//Create an unauthenticated connection
AllegroGraphServer agraph = new AllegroGraphServer("http://localhost:9875", "catalog");
}}}

For 4.x you can manage the root catalog like so:

{{{
#!csharp

//Create an unauthenticated connection to the root catalog
AllegroGraphServer agraph = new AllegroGraphServer("http://localhost:9875");
}}}

== Creating Stores ==

When creating a store the ##AllegroGraphServer## will provide only simple  [[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/api/index.asp?Topic=VDS.RDF.Storage.Management.Provisioning.StoreTemplate|StoreTemplate]] instances as templates.  No extra settings may currently be configured when creating stores on a Allegro Graph server.